hey guys what is up coming to you
patreon exclusive in September of 2018
I'm gonna share this with the general
public about one year later but if
you're watching this a year later or 10
years later I just note this anecdote is
in some ways uniquely September of 2018
its contacts
way back in September of 2018 which is
right now if you're supporting the
channel from $1 a month on patreon and
thank you ah we participated in street
outreach public education sidewalk
activism in Vancouver British Columbia
Canada and the first person who walked
up to me and talked to me at this event
was in fact a communist or possibly an
anti-capitalist anarchist or a narco
communist something of that kind so this
video is primarily going to be relating
that anecdote this conversation had to
you with a few more reflections on this
particular style of vegan outreach or
activism so for myself overall this was
a positive experience this is a very
small group that organized the event
it's ultimately one man's out in a one
man's organization as so often the case
with vegan activism and it does not
directly reflect the methods used by
cube of truth or the Earthlings
experience the founder and coordinator
and organizers of this group he was a
former employee of Mercy for Animals and
he'd seen what the other groups were
doing in terms of street activism and
outreach and in some ways his method is
a bit of a creative response to the
advantages and disadvantages of other
methods so just as I suggested on this
channel some time ago instead of having
people standing silently wearing masks
and holding up video monitors he simply
bought a metal rack the video monitors
are mounted on and the video monitors he
purchased to display the slaughterhouse
foot
they are commercial-grade there they're
the type of monitor used for public
advertising not for you know using your
computer at home to do word processing
so they are much brighter and the image
carries further down the sidewalk
whereas you know if you're holding a
laptop computer that's a type of display
monitor or screen that's the type of
screen really designed for people to sit
up close to it so there are some some
strategic differences here already and
the other big one in terms of the
psychology and attitude that the
participants
there's nobody having I think the
denigrating experience of standing in
silence with the mask on now different
people do tell me different things about
that experience of having the mask on
and the main thing I'm excited with this
video is that different people have
different perspectives on the experience
of doing the face to face conversation
and outreach that this this type of
activism entails that's very different
for different psychological types of
people it probably also is different
based on your physical appearance sad
but true in this world I'll come back to
that a little bit later but you know
I've had some people tell me that they
really do appreciate and enjoy the
experience of standing in silence with a
mask on and seeing the look in other
people's eyes seeing the reaction you
know silently when they come over and
look at the monitor I can understand
that but I do sometimes have people
telling me yes they really do experience
this as a somewhat oppressive and
hierarchical experience where some
people at this event are being assigned
to stand with a mask on and some are not
that they can't stand the process of you
know after two hours of standing in
silence they got to move around or do
something or go to the bathroom or that
it drives them crazy that they really
feel awful about it and that there are
little power struggles for who gets the
talk and it was to stand there in
silence who's in charge who's gonna be a
silent peon and who's gonna be the star
of the show kind of thing that that that
that kind of is going on so I mean some
people enjoy standing in silence I have
been told indirectly that some people
prefer standing in silence because
they're basically
shy and inarticulate people and they
feel they can't involve themselves in
the other the other parts of the process
and interestingly sometimes it is one in
the same person who's telling me both
sometimes one of the same person tells
me that they do appreciate some kind of
positive element of standing there and
silent silent protest but at the same
time they also appreciate the critique I
offered and they really agree with that
and they feel that yes there are there
are negative aspects to it and just
following up on that one step further I
think got an email back from a guy in
Japan who's again modifying this
Earthlings experience cube of truth
method of outreach and activism and the
first modification they made for
Japanese pardon me for a Japanese
audience was getting rid of the masks so
this is only I've said again and again
and again how do you think this mask is
perceived in different cultures how
would it be perceived in Africa how
would it be perceived in Japan or
Thailand or China and how is even
perceived in the United States of
America versus England vs. Australia if
we really think about it even if we're
just doing a market research level
analysis not a political or
philosophical level of analysis there's
a lot wrong with this particular mask
and in some context is a question of
should you be wearing a mask at all but
anyway the guy this guy wrote back to me
from Japan and he said look you know
they did it on an experimental basis
they tried using the the Guy Fawkes
masks they tried using different masks
and they said look here in Japan the
response to the masks is really negative
it's really distracting it trivializes
the demonstration that people seeing it
don't take it seriously because wearing
the mask he talked about how the
reaction was negative so they've really
made the decision to do this kind of
protest or outreach barefaced to just an
effort their face exposed and they
immediately saw much more positive
engagement so interesting word on that
from Japan so the particular group we
participated with in Vancouver there are
no masks and there's nobody standing in
a silent vigil they have an advertising
style big video display and simply as a
volunteer you stand there
to talk to anyone who's willing or
interested to talk to you after they see
the gruesome spectacle that's playing
constantly on the screen of
slaughterhouse footage and there's a
little bit of text on screen not too
much there are some simple things sit on
screen indicating that you know this
suffering can be abolished just by
switching to a healthier vegan diet
there are a few written prompts on
screen and you don't get sound you don't
get the sound of the the pigs screaming
or you know pigs cows whatever's on
screen which is again an interesting
choice a lot of the negative reaction to
slaughter has footage that I've seen has
been because people really feel the
sound is disturbing them and that's very
understandable especially in confined
spaces like a subway or a train station
where people have to be there people
have to be there with the kids to have
the sound of the screaming the animals
on the other hand I think some
protesters would say that's exactly what
they want so this particular setup they
were playing music just anodyne meaning
music that's not related to the the
video in any way and but otherwise the
video was silent so the very first
person to come up and and speak to me
and you know she wasn't particular
interest to me she just stepped forward
and kind of spoke to everyone it was
close to her and I I took up the
conversation cuz I was I was standing
close to her um again I would say she
was either a communist or maybe an
anarchic communist or some kind of anti
anti-capitalist person this becomes
obvious from the very first thing she
said as you'll see as I tell the rest
this anecdote um but it was also
striking to me that she was actually
wearing the outfit that today identifies
you as being a part of the quote-unquote
black bloc of protesters so that's a
style of dress that's been around since
the 1990s but it used to be that people
would just dress up that way when they
were going to a protest dressed up as a
member of the Black Bloc that was that
was associated in the past especially
with anarchists but all kinds of people
dressed that way today
and you know I don't think anyone
thought of that as a style of clothing
you'd wear 24/7 but obviously now for
some people
it is unless unless she was coming over
targets coincidentally maybe she just
came from some other or political
protest if so she didn't mention it
so she was wearing an old black hoodie
all-black outfit exactly the the style
of clothing that that's associated with
that political leaning these days and
she looked at the screen you know
briefly but no no four four two minutes
or something and then she said very
sincerely and very directly she said
that she thought the real problem with
what was on screen didn't have anything
to do with animal rights or veganism she
thought that the problem was capitalism
because all of this only happened
because it was being done for a profit
from her perspective in a capitalist
system so as it happened I was standing
quite close to her so I got to be the
person who reacted to her first and the
first thing I said to her which I really
did try to say in a very affable and
disarming way I didn't say it in an
authoritative way or confrontational way
I said um I've lived in communist
countries and this really surprised her
it just did and you know she was just
kind of a little bit boggle that said
what and I said to I've lived in in two
different communist countries I said you
know in in communist countries the
animals die just the same way the
process of where meat comes from the
process of making beef pork chicken milk
the animals die just the same way and
she actually respond to that her words
were a little bit garbled I did
understand her meaning but she didn't
she she fumbled a few words she said in
a kind of hasty way that oh well that
was just a problem with current actually
existing communist systems but not
somehow under real communism and again
trying to be affable and not
confrontational and she did actually
respond positively I mean she was being
very sincere and she didn't get
defensive so I think I succeeded in
being being affable
saying this I said no in Russia in 1920
the animals were being killed the same
way in China in 1960 the animals were
being killed the same way under every
communist system this isn't just
something as she was suggesting with
recent corruption income his countries
or capitalist influence in communist
countries in every stage of history and
the next thing I said was she was she
was a little bit stunned there was a
moment of silence after I said that so I
then offered further this goes back more
than 2,000 years this goes back more
than 10,000 years this isn't a problem
with capitalism this isn't just a
problem with industrialization or
industrialized Society so you know this
this is a story of of centuries and
millennia for all this time you know
this is where your food has come from
the animals have been dying the same way
now I was really expecting her at this
point to have a defensive reaction or a
dismissive reaction because I could tell
from her very first statement where she
was blaming capitalism that you know
this is a real personal conviction of
hers that she's someone who's an
anti-capitalist or pro-communist of some
kind and you know she really wants to
believe that her political ideology
would solve this problem or at least
that the political ideology she hates
that the economic system capitalism if
were abolished
this would also abolish this problem but
what she said next surprised me because
she said to me quite sincerely and
sounding a bit bewildered so what's the
alternative that you know how do we
solve the problem and I said to her you
know the very first a factor that was
veganism said I've been eating a vegan
diet for years now I could have said all
of us have because we had a group of
people there who were all vegans were
all there but I just hope for myself so
now it's sort
possible and her next question after
that also indicated that she really was
sincere she wasn't just interested in
defending communist or anti capitalist
ideology she asked and I I do sympathise
as a sincere question she said where do
you get your protein how do you get
enough protein
yes sincere enough and I gave her a
reasonably informative answer with that
I said well there are plenty of you know
natural sources like soy beans black
beans kidney beans any kind of bean is
rich in protein but I said if you're too
busy to eat uh you know to prepare a
meal with whole beans in it you know
there are lots of ways you can cheat I
said you can buy protein bars you
probably see them at all the grocery
stores and what-have-you you can buy you
know the Clif Bar that's a vegan brand
that has protein and a bunch of other
vitamins in it I say you can you can
cheat you know if you're busy and you
don't have time to really cook properly
as a vegan you can buy protein powder
you can buy protein supplements this is
if you're worried about protein you know
there are ways to cheat and there are
also ways to get enough protein having
whatever you want to call it a healthy
Whole Foods diet you know or what have
you
and I just mentioned she um she did not
look healthy I would say she was at
least thirty pounds overweight
but maybe even she had about fifty
pounds to lose
she was she was significantly overweight
and young I mean she wasn't an older
person being overweight that way so she
might also have on some level been been
interested in in improving her health
well that's not overtly you know what we
talked about so you know only a few more
words were exchanged after that you know
communism has been one of the most
popular and the most influential
ideologies in the history of the world
so you know it is surprising for many of
us you know you feel that this has been
discredited that it's killed millions of
people
how is it possible in 2018 that you meet
communists as I do I mean I've known
huge numbers of Communists my whole life
especially within academia especially in
context where left-wing extremism is
really kind of celebrated and and
protected from outside scrutiny um you
you certainly have to be open to the
possibility when talking to communists
that they're not interested in cynically
making excuses for their ideology that
they're not trying to use their ideology
as an excuse for their bad behavior I've
definitely seen that with communists in
the past where they say they believe in
liberating the workers and therefore
they don't care about liberating the
cows or the chickens of the pigs that
they're they don't care about ecology or
other things that they just have this
Marxist analysis of class struggle and
that's the political struggle they're
committed to and that only you know you
have to remain open to the possibility
that the people you're talking to are
sincere and well-intentioned even if
they have signed up for a political
ideology as odious as communism and it's
hard it's not easy I've literally broken
down weeping reading detailed accounts
of communist atrocities and those
atrocities are not as well-known as the
Nazi atrocities you know when you say
the word Nazi immediately what comes to
mind our concentration camps and gas
chambers and eugenics so on and so forth
when you say the word communist very
very few people have done the reading
have done the kind of research to know
the type of mass murder that ideology
really entails or even to know how ugly
the reality is lurking behind euphemisms
like class war that you know yeah class
war really does mean you know students
murdering their own teachers it really
does mean people going house-to-house
and you know slaughtering their fellow
man for being bourgeois and the
definition of who is
who isn't bourgeois is always
dangerously vague and susceptible to
interpretation and so on and so forth
not even to get into masturbation
ethnocide genocide and simple looting
that's they came up as part and parcel
of the history of communism yeah I've
said many many times in this channel I
did not want to be part of the Buddhist
religion anymore in the past when I left
Buddhism because I didn't want to be
part of a religion that's built on a lie
and I can still say today my engagement
with veganism ecology and other forms of
politics in this same way is always
about keeping it real keeping it real
with myself and others it's not always
gonna turn out well it may sometimes be
emotionally damaging for both parties
when you really keep it honest but yeah
I'm not living a lie one way or another
neither in in terms of you know the
account of my own political commitments
nor terms of the way in which I a
challenge others